.TH MINBIF 8 "28 September 2009"
.SH NAME
minbif \- The IRC instant messaging gateway
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
\fBminbif [\-hv] [\-\-pidfile \fIpidfile\fB]\fP
.I CONFIG_FILE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Minbif is an IRC gateway to IM networks which provides the following features:

.nf
* Minbif uses a library which abstracts all IM calls, and has several plugins to support more than 15 IM protocols (IRC included!);
* Two modes: inetd and daemon fork;
* Only IRC commands are used to control Minbif;
* Certificates check;
* Buddies are IRC users;
* Each account has a status channel. You see in all connected buddies, and their status on it;
* Add and remove buddies from list with /INVITE and /KICK commands;
* Blocked users are bans on the account's status channel;
* Display when a buddy is typing a message;
* Can chat with someone who is not in your buddy list;
* You can see buddies' icons (with libcaca) or download them;
* DCC SEND an image to set your icon on IM networks;
* Display extended information about buddies with /WII command;
* Support away messages;
* Can send and receive files, which are sent or received to/from your IRC client with DCC SEND;
* Conversation channels are supported;
* Auto\-rejoin conversation channels at connection;
* Display list of channels on an IM account with /LIST;
* irssi scripts to increase your user experience of minbif;
* CACAcam (webcam in ascii art).
.fi

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-pidfile\fR \fIpidfile\fR
path to pidfile where the minbif's PID is written.
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fR
display version of minbif.
.TP
\fB\-\-help\fR
show help.
.TP
.B config_file
Configuration file location.

.SH CONFIGURATION
Edit the \fIminbif.conf\fP file and change value when needed.

With the inetd mode, use this command to add minbif:
.nf
# update\-inetd \-\-add '56667 stream tcp nowait minbif /usr/sbin/tcpd /usr/bin/minbif /etc/minbif/minbif.conf'
.fi

With the daemon fork mode, run minbif with:
.nf
# minbif /etc/minbif/minbif.conf
.fi

.SH HOW TO USE
Connect your IRC client (for examble \fIirssi\fP) on minbif with this command:
.nf
/server localhost 56667 \fIpassword\fP
.fi

The nickname set on your IRC client is your username on minbif. First time you
connect to minbif with this nickname, the account is created and the
\fIpassword\fP parameter is set.

Next, use the \fB/map help\fP command to know how to add a network.

See also: http://symlink.me/wiki/minbif/Quick_start

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright(C) 2009 Romain Bignon
.LP
For full COPYRIGHT see COPYING file with minbif package.
.LP
.RE
.SH FILES
 "minbif.conf"
